# GlobalGameJam2019
The Scripts from an incomplete GameJam game

Overall I found the game jam to be a big success! I learned a lot of valuable lessons from it. I’ll start off with the things that didn’t go too well.
	The main issue that created most of the problems for our group was the size of the group. We had about 16 people in our group. With that many people, the result could have been very good or rather messy. Unfortunately, I found our result to be rather messy for the time we had and the amount of people we had. I learned that it’s very hard to organize a project and try to divvy up tasks amongst 16 people. I felt the tasks were not equal. Obviously it’s very hard to keep that many people organized and always working on something substantial but for example many people (myself included) spent hours right away trying to code up main concepts for the game where others were required to find a couple audio clips from the internet and that was it. This could have been solved by having the people who finished early offer to do something as well or to help others (this wasn’t the case with everyone, there were many people offering to help).
	By the time everyone had finished their first couple of assigned tasks it was finally time for us to put everything together. This also caused many issues as we didn’t talk about how we were setting up our games or what they’d really look like. Because of this, the minigames didn’t flow well together and were easy to tell that they had been made by different people. At this point, we only had about 5 of the 16 people work on making sure our game connected and worked. I learned that with a group that big you must make sure all the members have initiative and are eager to participate and that a lot of organizing is done before starting to sit down and start coding.
	Despite my rant on what went wrong, there were positive too of course. I learned quite a lot about how Unity works and how C# differs from C++. I didn’t have any experienced coders to seek help with errors so everything done was figured out on our own. The game jam forced me to problem solve and use the resources I had (internet, previous assignments) to figure out my problems. This skill will be very important later in my career and the game jam gave me a lot of practice for this. 
	For the next game jam I definitely want to make sure I am part of a smaller group (hopefully around 3-5 people or so) and I want to make sure that everyone else in the group has the same drive that I have towards the project. This way hopefully we can produce a unique but interesting working game. Even if the game is simple to code, it can be a really well developed product if the group has an interest and cares in what they’re doing. Moving forward I should have a much easier time problem solving as I have more experience looking up errors on my own. 
	In conclusion, the global game jam taught me quite a bit about how the actual development of games go. I learned a lot and despite all the issues our group had I still had a very enjoyable time!!
	
